## Friendship

While I was still in the closet, I had a strong desire to make friends and not just seek sexual relationships with people. My friend Alex and I met through a dating site and seemed to have a mutual interest in friendship. We set up plans for one Friday evening to hang out at their place. When I got to Alex's place, we hit it off right away. This was one of the first times I had met a trans person, seeking friendship and felt so comfortable and human. We had drinks, shared laughs and got theoretical about gender with one another very quickly. It was nice to meet someone a similar age, working in a similar field who understood what I was going through so well, and had navigated that journey already. What I did not expect that evening, however, was for Alex to propose that we go out to a bar together with their other friends who they had invited over. Quickly an evening that I thought was going to be a quiet hang turned into my first night out.

I was conflicted about taking the step into public for the first time. It wasn't so much because I was afraid of how anyone would react to seeing me, so much is the fact that I still wasn't out with my family. I wanted to talk to them first before I ever left my home because I just didn't want to risk getting caught and them learning from anyone else. Simultaneously the act of stepping out would bring a lot of clarity about things that I had on my mind, which could help me find the strength. There was a bit of a chicken and egg problem at hand in terms of what would help move me forward to coming out.

Ultimately, I decided to join them that night, and it was a life-changing experience. Over the next couple weeks I chatted with Alex several more times and talked a lot about the strong desire I had now to start talking to my parents. I wasn't really sure of what kind of labels to use and the wrong one felt like it could be a trap of expectations. So with Alex's help, I realized queer was the best label for me to break the ice with. The term queer is great in the sense that it has no clear expectations around what it means. It just indicates you're a little different and capable of anything.

Shortly after that chat with Alex I spoke with my family. Overall reception was positive and a new sense of comfort and freedom overcame me. I didn't have to hide my face any longer. 
 
I'm so grateful to the friendship I made with Alex that got me over the hump. It's hard to explain just how important friends can be to helping you see things more clearly and finding the self worth and courage within you.